Title: Let’s Not Forget the Other Side

----

Text:

## LNFtOS

LNFtOS is the result of a personal discourse relating to archaeological excavations and the holiness of death. 2017 marks the last excavational work conducted within Medellin’s -Spain- castle, previously and solely over the 80s. It had been abruptly abandoned after finding the 82nd grave, partly due to the use of the castle’s soil as the villa’s cemetery from 1883 until the late 1950s.
On one extremity, LNFtOS aims to conduct excavations while providing temporary pods to exhibit the fortification’s findings as well as workshops and temporary installations revolving around the topics of history, archaeology and death. Gradually descending and reaching into the Chamber leads the users to Blob [1] hosting the Immersive Elevator piercing through the depths of the fortification’s soil.

On the other extremity are the transported remains from the excavations, ultimately within Blob [2] being the Funnel containing the castle’s gathered soil in time, and a memorial comprising a series of Cubic Caskets that will also create its own artificial landscape as they pile up through the years.
LNFtOS essentially operates on the two extremities of the sensorial journey from the Castle’s high hill towards its pinnacle underwater in the Charca. Through its architecture, it explores the dualities of their programs both originally lying in the fortification.

As the only wavy artifact in the collection of LNFtOS, the Blob [1] attempts to operate as a visual element interacting with the rest. Seemingly massive in the distance, users are given a haptic exposure through the Uncanny Platform followed by a visual revelation of the light nature of the Blob [1] considered as an ornamental skin surrounding the Immersive Elevator when reaching the end of the Chamber.

As the only wavy artifact in the collection of LNFtOS, the Blob [1] attempts to operate as a visual element interacting with the rest. Seemingly massive in the distance, users are given a haptic exposure through the Uncanny Platform followed by a visual revelation of the light nature of the Blob [1] considered as an ornamental skin surrounding the Immersive Elevator when reaching the end of the Chamber. 

Soil lingers throughout LNFtOS, either as an aggregate for Earth-Cement Concrete for the Cubic Caskets and Blob [2] for the Charca Experience, or simply in its raw form. The true nature of the Blob [2]’s massiveness is to satisfy its role as an anchored artifact in the water containing the raw soil transported from the Castle’s excavations. Culminating the whole intervention, users -after appreciating the accumulated soil while gradually getting surrounded by water and Cubic Caskets- enter a tall, dark, cold space surrounded by soil and water with an opening at its tip being the only source of light, the Funnel. A strange metaphor or simulation of an approaching death.

Emphasizing the slow progression into the soil, once arriving towards the Castle’s fortifications, the users first enter the Doppelganger entrance tower, mimicking the existing tower, adapted to LNFtOS’s materiality. Once exited, the haptic passage over the fortification gives an instant overlook of the program and architecture that awaits the entire Castle Experience. Each Pod serves as a visual breakage into the gradual lowering with slow ramps firstly reaching the Uncanny Platform, providing the first view towards the Charca Experience and LNFtOS as a whole. Still slowly lowering through the remaining Pods, the users then reach the Chamber, a dimly lit tunnel with the obscure conclusion resulting into the Immersive Elevator piercing the users into Medellin’s hill.

As a long and progressively widening path, the memorial is firstly experienced after exiting the highway tunnel. Slowly approaching, users will then understand the scale of the Cubic Caskets, evenly separated by one another through an adopted grid. As the dominant pathway breaking into three distinct sub-experiences, the central platform reaches the Blob [2], acting as a humble artifact of the excavations originating from the Castle, a container filled in time with soil. In parallel, the peripheral pathways gradually lower into the water, resulting either into the Funnel -a contemplative space submerged in soil with a hole peeking to the sky- or breaking the straight line of LNFtOS to experience a claustrophobic meandering underneath the Cubic Caskets, casting and referencing every remain found in the conducted excavations from within the Castle.

LNFtOS is more than a mere speculative intervention. Essentially, it could be thought of through its ghostly nature, attempted to be represented or even felt through the models’ choice of materials, the haptic touch in the selection of papers and finally the textures in its digital drawings.
LNFtOS is also an expression of time and process that not only operates within the intervention but in its own scale of the thesis.

----

Year: 2019

----

Location: Segovia