Title: Merely Artificial

----

Text:

## Merely Artificial

The bunker is the source of gameisalreadyset. Challenging our initial proposal of a stage performance -the spatial questioning-, on one hand, had led to rethinking the original intentions. In parallel, the intangible characteristics of the bunker contain a particular dynamic with GASSS’ cultural background. gameisalreadyset is the combination of both reflections, a gamelike interactive immersive experience revolving around the theme of alienated identity where the audience is given the possibility to meander through the space as the performance(s) take place. One could consider the characters as fictional, another could observe them as real, or even both. Open ended, gameisalreadyset’s story operates in the realms of dreams with fluctuating interpretations on the nature, origins and outcomes of each character expressed through several levels of intensities within analog and digital mediums of sound, sculpture, movement and light. 

Initially meant to be physical encounter in the format of a gamelike interactive immersive experience, its current output is reflected as an experimental film. Though the essential base of the performance has already fulfilled its unique transient purpose, gameisalreadyset’s aftermath remains to be appreciated as an entropic runthrough 

Merely Artificial is a site specific installation within a larger on-going project in collaboration with several artists with dance backgrounds seeking to explore other creative fields such as digital visualization, sculpture and sound. What was initially intended to be a stage performance quickly transformed into an interactive project by further exploiting our chosen space, a historical bunker, consisting of a series of textured narrow corridors and culminating in a larger volume where Merely Artificial will be carefully placed. 

The Magic Map served as our graphic tool to explore the dimensions of the journey namely sound, light, movement and the simulated intensities the audience would experience. 

Meant to be a representation of time through the melting wax dripping onto the floor, the slight variations in the aluminum’s geometry then reveal themselves. Merely Artificial lends itself to the immersive experience’s theme about alienated identity.

A wooden formwork, four aluminum bars, two buckets and a pot are needed for one sculpture. They are then cleaned and reused for the remaining sixteen.

----

Year: 2021

----

Location: Berlin